DOCSP-45212 Compatibility (#97)
mongodb/docs-ruby: source/compatibility.txt

Rails/ActiveSupport Compatibility
---------------------------------

The {+driver-short+} does not depend on ActiveSupport. However, if your
application uses ActiveSupport or Ruby on Rails, you must load the driver's
ActiveSupport compatibility code for behavior such as time serialization to be
correct:

.. code-block:: ruby

   require 'mongo'
   require 'mongo/active_support'

Applications using Mongoid 7.0.6 or newer do not need to explicitly load
the driver's ActiveSupport code, since Mongoid automatically does so.

.. _tls-compatibility:

TLS/SSL Compatibility
----------------------

The {+driver-short+} uses the protocols supported by the underlying Ruby
``openssl`` extension. The ``openssl`` extension generally exposes
the functionality available in the operating system's OpenSSL library.

Industry best practices, and some regulations, require the use of TLS 1.1
or newer. Some operating systems or versions might not provide an OpenSSL version
that supports these TLS versions.

If you use macOS older than 10.13 (High Sierra), you need to install Ruby from
`rvm`_, `homebrew`_, `macports`_, or another similar source. See
`Installing Ruby`_ for more options.

> If you use Linux or other non-macOS Unix system, you can check your OpenSSL version
> as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use Linux or other non-macOS Unix systems, you can check your OpenSSL version
as follows:
```

.. code-block:: sh

   openssl version

If the version number is less than 1.0.1, support for TLS 1.1 or newer is
not available. Contact your operating system vendor for a solution or upgrade
to a newer distribution.

> You can check your TLS version by running the following command in your Ruby
> interpreter:

Reviewer 2: I'd suggest leaving out "in your Ruby interpreter" here, since the command is meant to be run at the command line, and not in (for example) `irb`.

```suggestion
You can check your TLS version by running the following command:
```

.. code-block:: sh

   ruby -e "require 'net/http'; require 'json'; puts JSON.parse(Net::HTTP.get(URI('https://www.howsmyssl.com/a/check')))['tls_version']"

After running the command, you must see ``TLS 1.X`` where ``X`` is greater than
or equal to ``1``.

To learn more about TLS versions and their security implications, see `Transport Layer Security Cheat Sheet
<https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Transport_Layer_Security_Cheat_Sheet.html>`_.

.. _rvm: https://rvm.io/
.. _homebrew: https://brew.sh/
.. _macports: https://www.macports.org/
.. _Installing Ruby: https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/documentation/installation

Atlas Compatibility
-------------------

We recommend {+driver-short+} version 2.6.1 or later when using MongoDB Atlas.
This version has significant performance improvements for TLS connections, and
all Atlas connections use TLS.

When running on JRuby and connecting to Atlas Free Tier, {+driver-short+}

> version 2.6.4 or later and Java 8 or later are required.

Reviewer 2: The 2.6 series of the driver is quite old, and I don't think we want to be recommending it in any way. For example, version 2.6.4 (the final version of the 2.6 series) was released on 22 Jan 2019 -- almost 6 years ago. That's long enough ago that we probably don't even need to worry about mentioning these "performance improvements".

Ideally, we could remove this section entirely. If it needs to remain, I'd recommend at least changing the wording so that we "recommend" the latest driver version.

Author: I'm good with removing 👍

Reviewer 3: Agreed, let's remove it

mongo_kerberos Compatibility
----------------------------

{+driver-short+} versions 2.7 and later are compatible with the

> ``mongo_kerberos`` gem version 2.1 of the :ref:`mongo_kerberos library <kerberos>`.

Reviewer 2: The 2.7 series of the driver was very short-lived, with the last release in March of 2019. As mentioned in my previous comment, I'd prefer if we could nix this entire section; I think it's unlikely that anyone is actively using a driver version older than 2.7 in production right now, and if they are, and they run into issues with `mongo_kerberos`, they're likely to look into upgrading anyway.

Author: Will remove 👍

Reviewer 3: Agreed, this can be removed

JRuby and Kerberos Authentication
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you use the ``mongo_kerberos`` gem for Kerberos authentication with JRuby,
the JVM system property ``sun.security.jgss.native`` is set to ``true``. This

> facilitates the use of the system cache of Ticket Granting Tickets (TGTs), for
> example, TGTs obtained with ``kinit``.

Reviewer: S: I think the commas in this sentence are a bit off. Also, wondering if there's a way to get rid of the parentheses without making the sentence too long/cumbersome.
```suggestion
facilitates the use of the system cache of Ticket Granting Tickets (TGTs), such as TGTs obtained with ``kinit``.
```

.. _ruby-compatibility:

=============
Compatibility
=============

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

.. facet::
   :name: genre
   :values: reference
 
.. meta::
   :keywords: backwards compatibility, versions, upgrade 

MongoDB Compatibility
---------------------

The following compatibility table specifies the recommended
version(s) of the {+driver-long+} for use with a specific version of
MongoDB. Except when indicated, the specified driver versions expose or
take advantage of the features added in the corresponding server versions.

MongoDB server releases are generally backwards compatible. This means a
particular driver version will generally work with newer server versions but may

> not utilize the new functionalities in those server versions.

Reviewer: I: [May/might](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/meta/style-guide/terminology/alphabetical-terms/#m)

The first column lists the driver versions.

.. include:: /includes/compatibility-table-legend-ruby.rst

.. include:: /includes/language-compatibility-table-ruby.rst

The driver does not support older versions of Ruby.

Rails/ActiveSupport Compatibility
---------------------------------

The {+driver-short+} does not depend on ActiveSupport. However, if your
application uses ActiveSupport or Ruby on Rails, you must load the driver's
ActiveSupport compatibility code for behavior such as time serialization to be
correct:

.. code-block:: ruby

   require 'mongo'
   require 'mongo/active_support'

Applications using Mongoid 7.0.6 or newer do not need to explicitly load
the driver's ActiveSupport code, since Mongoid automatically does so.

.. _tls-compatibility:

TLS/SSL Compatibility
----------------------

The {+driver-short+} uses the protocols supported by the underlying Ruby
``openssl`` extension. The ``openssl`` extension generally exposes
the functionality available in the operating system's OpenSSL library.

Industry best practices, and some regulations, require the use of TLS 1.1
or newer. Some operating systems or versions may not provide an OpenSSL version

> that supports these TLS versions.

Reviewer: I: May/might as above

If you use macOS older than 10.13 (High Sierra), you need to install Ruby from
`rvm`_, `homebrew`_, `macports`_, or another similar source. See
`Installing Ruby`_ for more options.

> If you use Linux or other non-macOS Unix, you can check your OpenSSL version

Reviewer: Q: I'm not familiar enough with Unix, but is it often referred to in a plural way like this?

as follows:

> .. code-block:: sh
> 
>   openssl version

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: sh

   openssl version
```

If the version number is less than 1.0.1, support for TLS 1.1 or newer is
not available. Contact your operating system vendor for a solution or upgrade
to a newer distribution.

> You can check your Ruby interpreter by running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can check your TLS version by running the following command in your Ruby interpreter:
```

> .. code-block:: sh
> 
>   ruby -e "require 'net/http'; require 'json'; puts JSON.parse(Net::HTTP.get(URI('https://www.howsmyssl.com/a/check')))['tls_version']"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: sh

   ruby -e "require 'net/http'; require 'json'; puts JSON.parse(Net::HTTP.get(URI('https://www.howsmyssl.com/a/check')))['tls_version']"
```

> You should see ``TLS 1.X`` where ``X`` is greater than or equal to ``1``.

Reviewer: I: [should](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/meta/style-guide/terminology/alphabetical-terms/#s)
```suggestion
This command must return ``TLS 1.X`` where ``X`` is greater than or equal to ``1``. [or something idk]
```

To learn more about TLS versions and their security implications, see `Transport Layer Security Cheat Sheet
<https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Transport_Layer_Security_Cheat_Sheet.html>`_.

.. _rvm: https://rvm.io/
.. _homebrew: https://brew.sh/
.. _macports: https://www.macports.org/
.. _Installing Ruby: https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/documentation/installation

Atlas Compatibility
-------------------

> We recommend `Driver version 2.6.1
> <https://github.com/mongodb/mongo-ruby-driver/releases/tag/v2.6.1>`_ or higher
> when using MongoDB Atlas. This version has significant performance improvements
> for TLS connections, and all Atlas connections use TLS.
> 
> When running on JRuby and connecting to Atlas Free Tier,
> `driver version 2.6.4 <https://github.com/mongodb/mongo-ruby-driver/releases/tag/v2.6.4>`_
> or higher and Java 8 or higher are required.

Reviewer: S: Inconsistency
```suggestion
We recommend {+driver-short+} version 2.6.1 or higher
when using MongoDB Atlas. This version has significant performance improvements
for TLS connections, and all Atlas connections use TLS.

When running on JRuby and connecting to Atlas Free Tier,
{+driver-short+} version 2.6.4
or higher and Java 8 or higher are required.
```

mongo_kerberos Compatibility
----------------------------

The following compatibility table specifies the version(s) of the
:ref:`mongo_kerberos library <kerberos>` to use with a specific version of
the {+driver-short+}.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :stub-columns: 1
   :class: compatibility-large no-padding

   * - Ruby Driver

>      - mongo_kerberos |nbsp| 2.1

Reviewer: I: `|nbsp|` seems to not be rendering, causing an extra space.

Also, give that the table is so short, would this section be better served by a paragraph?

Author: I think this is just a non-breaking space so nothing should render. It was present in the original compatibility page but I can update this to no longer use a table and remove it if not needed.

   * - 2.7 - 2.19
     - |checkmark|

JRuby and Kerberos Authentication
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> If you use the ``mongo_kerberos`` gem for Kerberos authentication with JRuby, the
> JVM system property ``sun.security.jgss.native`` is set to ``true`` to
> facilitate the use of the system cache of Ticket Granting Tickets (TGTs) (for
> example, TGTs obtained with ``kinit``). This setting also affects any other use
> of the JGSS library, making any TGTs in the system cache available for obtaining
> Kerberos credentials.

Reviewer: S: break up these sentences, like (for example):
```suggestion
If you use the ``mongo_kerberos`` gem for Kerberos authentication with JRuby, the
JVM system property ``sun.security.jgss.native`` is set to ``true``. This facilitates the
use of cached Ticket Granting Tickets (TGTs), such as those obtained with ``kinit``.

This setting also affects any other use of the JGSS library, 
making any TGTs in the system cache available to obtain
Kerberos credentials.
```

.. include:: /includes/unicode-checkmark.rst

> .. include:: /includes/unicode-nbsp.rst

Reviewer: I: I don't think these are being rendered

Author: These don't get rendered here, they're for use in the tables to use the shortcode for checkmark and the non-breaking space.
